# intrusiondetection
A system fueld with machine learning to detect intrusions in the system and also classifying which algorithms yields best output

To begin, we will collect data from Kaggle, which will result in around 22544 rows and 41 columns per class being fed to the model in total. This dataset is then pre-processed to choose 5 rows and 41 columns that meet our TCP/IP-based attack detection criteria. We folded our dataset and checked for any null values to eliminate the risk of missing or null entries. The model is then built, which begins with the installation of dependencies like NumPy, matplotlib, TensorFlow, seaborn, matplotlib, itertools, and so on. We worked in the Google COLAB environment. We began by saving the dataset to disc and connecting it to colab. Previously, the train and test data had been separated and uploaded. The most notable advantage of using this dataset is that it contains up-to-date information on recent assaults. We started with the Random Forest Classification, picking the top 10 features while keeping the random state as 2 and estimating 20 decision trees for the model, which resulted in a 99.45% test score. Following that, we created the Logistic Regression model. Given the complexity and computing power, the random state was set at 42. The logistic model ultimately had the quickest compilation time and a slightly lower test score of 92.31%. Following that, we created a training and testing model for K-Nearest Neighbours, which yielded a test score of 97.90%. Finally, we created the Decision Tree model with a maximum depth of 7, which resulted in the highest test score percentage of 99.53%.
